# Motives-Killer
Data Analytics: This project aims to investigate the age at which serial killers commit their first murder based on their motives.

Serial killers or serial murderers have multiple definitions used by law enforcement, clinicians, researchers, and academia. Some say that a serial killer is an unlawful homicide of at least two people carried out by the same person in separate events occurring at different times. However, during the arrest of a serial killer, the question is always asked, why did this person kill other persons? Like all human beings, a serial killer is a product of his or her heredity, upbringing, and choices of the way of life. That suggests one of the most relevant factors in a murder is the serial killer’s intuition. Therefore, throughout this paper, we will investigate the age at which serial killers commit their first murder based on their motives. Previous research has suggested a population mean of μ=27 years and a variance of σ2=74 for active serial killers during the 1900s. But does the average age at first murder differ between killers with different motives? To be able to provide an answer to this question, we should look at the differences in the killing motives that we have in our dataset and the average age of the first kill.

The data retrieved for this paper is a sample of 809 serial killers with nine important characteristics. The characteristics are the killer ID, the age at first murder, the age at their last murder, the year born, the motive, the sex, the race, the sentence and whether each killer made a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. Based on these characteristics, we added a new column to the data set named CareerDuration, defined as the number of years between the first and last kill. Another new column was added to specify the year the killer made the first kill, named YearFirstKill. Then, we removed all the missing observations and mistakes in the data set, such as unrealistically long career duration and negative duration. Besides that, the data of killers who made the first kill before 1900 also had been removed. The total data that have been removed from this data set is approximately 8% which leaves the total sample to become 743 serial killers. More than three-quarters of the samples are white and black killers, and only 3% of serial killers are female. The interesting finding we could extract directly from the data set is the differences in career duration between the killers aged above 18 (labelled as an adult) and those below 18 who can be considered a child. On average, child killers stayed in a killer career longer than adult killers. Besides that, we also could determine the differences in age at first kill between killers with different motives, which is our focus in this paper. The data set has three motives: escape or avoid arrest, enjoyment or power and revenge or vigilante justice. We will investigate the details of this aspect in the following sections.

In our analysis, we found that the sample means or the estimator of means for the age of killers at the first kill for three motives (enjoyment or power, revenge or vigilante justice, and escape or avoid arrest) are 30.57, 30.42 and 32.95, respectively. Roughly we can say they do not have much difference because they lie in the same early ‘30s age range. In general, their intuition of killing might not be influenced by their starting age. This may suggest that the urge to kill, regardless of the motives, is overpowering in the early ‘30s. We might have more evidence to support this if we do the two-sample tests (independent samples) on each pair of motives to estimate the average difference. However, the answer to the main question we obtained from the investigation is still not perfectly accurate.
There are a few limitations that caused doubt in our assumptions.
